Right now we're taking images of a pigment chart,
and this was made by an MCI staff member
and an intern several years ago,
and this is a good reference for different techniques
to test and see how the different pigments respond
to different wavelengths.
White at the top,
we have zinc white, titanium white,
and a lead white.
They look the same in visible light,
but they respond a little bit differently
to other wavelengths.
Ultraviolet wavelengths cannot be seen
directly with our eyes.
To take an image in UV,
Dr. Webb puts a special filter,
one that blocks visible light,
in front of the lens.
Then, using only an ultraviolet light source,
she captures the image.
(camera shutter clicks)
Pigments can differ dramatically
in how much UV light is reflected or absorbed.
And this is showing us a difference
in how those materials are absorbing,
reflecting, and transmitting the UV radiation.
So we were seeing in that top left,
we have the strongest absorption
with that zinc white.
Lead white is absorbing quite a bit down here,
so that's that medium gray,
but we're seeing a little bit more kind of reflection
or transmission with this middle white.
We're also seeing some differences with the blues,
with this cobalt blue reflecting quite a bit
of UV radiation,
but we're seeing some absorption with the indigo,
the Prussian, and the other blues in this top area.
Some materials absorb UV
and re-emit some of this energy as visible light.
This is called UV-induced visible luminescence,
an additional clue for identifying pigments.
So on the computer screen,
we're seeing the images,
the UV-induced visible luminescence images.
We can see those differences
in how the whites are responding.
So these are the different whites
that are up in the top left.
We have one that's luminescing this yellow color,
we have one that's kind of a bluish color,
and then we have one that's absorbing,
that's not luminescing.
And if we think back to that visible light image
or looking at it
under kind of the standard room lights,
those all looked the same.
(upbeat music)